---
content_type: page
is_media_gallery: true
title: Video Lectures
uid: cf6e51e7-8803-cdbb-76d9-8fa749ad53f2
---
{{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/lecture-1-intro-to-nanotechnology-nanoscale-transport-phenomena" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 1: Intro to Nanotechnology, Nanoscale Transport Phenomena" description="Description: This intro lecture gives an overview of the course and the research in the field of nanoscience and technology. It starts with review of the classical laws related to energy transport processes, and introduces microscopic pictures of energy carriers. Instructor: Prof. Gang Chen" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/jisTDmIk3Nw/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/lecture-2-characteristic-time-and-length-simple-kinetic-theory" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 2: Characteristic Time and Length, Simple Kinetic Theory" description="Description: This lecture elaborates on the microscopic pictures of energy carriers. It explains more details on energy transfer, and compares between micro and nanoscale phenomena, including classical size effects and quantum size effects. Instructor: Prof. Gang Chen" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/XfWkgDLc4xA/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/lecture-3-schroedinger-equation-and-material-waves" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 3: Schrödinger Equation and Material Waves" description="Description: This lecture covers topics, including the basic wave characteristics, wave-particle duality in both electromagnetic waves and material waves, and also the fundamentals in the mathematical description of wave mechanics. Instructor: Prof. Gang Chen" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/Hqm4Xc4212E/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/lecture-4-solutions-to-schroedinger-equation-energy-quantization" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 4: Solutions to Schrödinger Equation, Energy Quantization" description="Description: This lecture provides the example solutions to Schrodinger equation. It also investigates the quantized energy in material waves with different quantum numbers and quantum states, including 1-D quantum well and 2-D quantum wire. Instructor: Prof. Gang Chen" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/bESVLOTvijk/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/lecture-5-electronic-levels-in-one-dimensional-lattice-chain" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 5: Electronic Levels in One-Dimensional Lattice Chain" description="Description: This lecture investigates the electrons energy levels in solids, including metals, insulators, and semiconductors. It also introduces the Bloch theorem to calculate the periodic potential in crystals. Instructor: Prof. Gang Chen" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/NLDNfnRGWxI/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/lecture-6-crystal-bonding-electronic-energy-levels-in-crystals" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 6: Crystal Bonding & Electronic Energy Levels in Crystals" description="Description: This lecture extends the discussion of electronic band structure, crystal structure, crystal bonding, and reciprocal space to 3-D crystals. It also explains the Bragg condition. Instructor: Prof. Gang Chen" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/rfgaLeHq5f0/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/lecture-7-phonon-energy-levels-in-crystal-and-crystal-structures" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 7: Phonon Energy Levels in Crystal and Crystal Structures" description="Description: This lecture continues with reciprocal space and Bragg condition which determines the diffraction patterns in crystals. It also provides the mathematical proof of Bragg condition, and discusses the energy on atomic vibration of crystals and phonons. Instructor: Prof. Gang Chen" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/lcVaTjSpn7Y/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/lecture-8-density-of-states-and-statistical-distributions" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 8: Density of States and Statistical Distributions" description="Description: This lecture emphasizes on density of (quantum mechanical) states in electrons, phonons, and photons, elaborating the topic with examples in the 2-D and 3-D structure. It also talks about quantum statistics. Instructor: Prof. Gang Chen" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/Ii6UtH6h2jY/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/lecture-9-specific-heat-and-plancks-law" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 9: Specific Heat and Plancks Law" description="Description: The discussion on density of states continues with quantum statistical distributions. Students also learn how to apply quantum statistics in examples of photons, phonons, and electrons. Later, it explains the fundamentals in statistical physics. Instructor: Prof. Gang Chen" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/D8icilnxcy4/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/lecture-10-fundamental-of-statistical-thermodynamics" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 10: Fundamental of Statistical Thermodynamics" description="Description: The discussion on statistical physics continues in this lecture. The instructor gives several examples in different ensemble cases, and also an application example in gas molecule. Instructor: Prof. Gang Chen" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/7Ken5EC4OrU/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/lecture-11-energy-transfer-by-waves-plane-waves" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 11: Energy Transfer by Waves: Plane Waves" description="Description: The main focus is the microscopic picture of waves. This lecture discusses the energy transport by waves, by using the Maxwells equations in different electric/magnetic fields and between different interfaces. Instructor: Prof. Gang Chen" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/LKNuAQWzWDE/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/lecture-12-em-waves-reflection-at-a-single-interface" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 12: EM Waves: Reflection at a Single Interface" description="Description: In this lecture, students learn to calculate the energy carried by electromagnetic (EM) waves, and understand how EM waves propagate in a medium and at an interface. Instructor: Prof. Gang Chen" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/_DHlhTrlDxc/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/lecture-13-em-wave-propagation-through-thin-films-multilayers" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 13: EM Wave Propagation Through Thin Films & Multilayers" description="Description: This lecture provides more details on the application of Snells Law at one single interface; later, more discussion of the wave propagation in multi-layered structures, for instance thin films. It also gives out information about the first midterm exam. Instructor: Prof. Gang Chen" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/_i0yWRrEesM/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/lecture-14-wave-phenomena-and-landauer-formalism" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 14: Wave Phenomena and Landauer Formalism" description="Description: This lecture continues previous discussion of wave propagation in thin films, and determines the energy exchange between two points. It also explores various examples in application of tunneling. Instructor: Prof. Gang Chen" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/fat0ZKEDzSY/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/lecture-15-particle-description-liouville-boltzmann-equations" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 15: Particle Description, Liouville & Boltzmann Equations" description="Description: In this lecture, students learn to determine how fast particles travel, and topics including wave to particle transition and particle transport processes with Liouville equation and Boltzmann equation. It also commented on the result of first midterm exam. Instructor: Prof. Gang Chen" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/YHW7TwF00Rs/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/lecture-16-fermi-golden-rule-and-relaxation-time-approximation" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 16: Fermi Golden Rule and Relaxation Time Approximation" description="Description: This lecture begins with description of term paper project and discussion on first midterm exam. It covers topics, including the collision term and scattering term in Boltzmann transport equation, relaxation time approximation, and scattering mechanics. Instructor: Prof. Gang Chen" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/zC78xmSbhAY/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/lecture-17-solutions-to-boltzmann-equation-diffusion-laws" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 17: Solutions to Boltzmann Equation: Diffusion Laws" description="Description: Students learn to solve the Boltzmann equation in the classical limit under relaxation time approximation in this lecture. Students also learn to derive the Fourier law, Newton shear law, and the electron transport process with the Ohms Law. Instructor: Prof. Gang Chen" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/fYNz3SsWf90/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/lecture-18-electron-transport-and-thermoelectric-effects" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 18: Electron Transport and Thermoelectric Effects" description="Description: This lecture starts from Boltzmann equation under time relaxation approximation, and discusses more on electron transport process. Later, it explains thermoelectric effects and other fundamentals related to the phenomena. Instructor: Prof. Gang Chen" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/rEVqrE_7CqE/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/lecture-19-classical-size-effects-parallel-direction" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 19: Classical Size Effects, Parallel Direction" description="Description: In this lecture, using Boltzmann equation to solve the heat and electrical conduction problem along a two-dimensional thin film is the main focus. It discusses current research in thermoelectrics and further covers the topic of classical size effects. Instructor: Prof. Gang Chen" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/_ayCen0j-0w/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/lecture-20-classical-size-effects-perpendicular-direction" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 20: Classical Size Effects, Perpendicular Direction" description="Description: This lecture continues discussion on energy transport when it travels perpendicularly to a film. It also provides solving Boltzmann equation with consideration of classical size effects under circumstances of heat carriers colliding with boundaries. Instructor: Prof. Gang Chen" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/3oV1saJEZy8/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/lecture-21-slip-condition-coupled-energy-transport-conversion" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 21: Slip Condition, Coupled Energy Transport & Conversion" description="Description: The lecture introduces various approximate ways to tribute all effects to different boundaries/interfaces conditions, and covers topics in energy conversion and coupled transport processes. It also provides details of the second midterm exam. Instructor: Prof. Gang Chen" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/4uHWWVa4z2s/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/lecture-22-pn-junction-diode-and-photovoltaic-cells" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 22: PN Junction, Diode and Photovoltaic Cells" description="Description: This lecture uncovers the basic science of semiconductor devices and solar cells, including p-n junction and photovoltaic effects. Also, it explains the phenomenon of Shockley-Queisser limit. Instructor: Prof. Gang Chen" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/ZYMWsmertQk/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/lecture-23-liquids-brownian-motion-and-forces-in-liquids" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 23: Liquids: Brownian Motion and Forces in Liquids" description="Description: The lecture first continues discussion on liquids. It investigates transport properties of bulk liquids, and different forces and potentials between particles and surfaces in liquids. It also explores current research in solar-cells. Instructor: Prof. Gang Chen" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/qsFzIv3PHz8/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/lecture-24-electrical-double-layer-size-effects-in-phase-change" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 24: Electrical Double Layer, Size Effects in Phase Change" description="Description: This lecture continues to explore the repulsive force between particles and surfaces in liquids and learn more on electrokinetics. It also investigates the size effect on phase transition. Instructor: Prof. Gang Chen" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/Z5tZlfSwHrk/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/lecture-25-statistical-foundation-for-molecular-dynamics-simulation" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 25: Statistical Foundation for Molecular Dynamics Simulation" description="Description: In this lecture, students learn about molecular dynamic simulation. Instructor: Prof. Gang Chen" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/XrdcGZppwI4/default.jpg" >}}